---
layout: post
title: "What we do"
subtitle: " Africa desperately needs new answers for old problems"
heroImage: "lightAFire.webp"
author: Johan
authorImg: "team/JohanSmall.jpg"
tags: EMIT transformation Africa Leadership Training
category: About EMIT
---

### Change Agents
EMIT has positioned itself as a respected and effective
change agent in Africa. We exist to bring about transformation in a continent that desperately needing new
answers for old problems. We do this by influencing
individuals to move and think in the same direction. By
focusing on spiritual, character, leadership and professional skills development, we educate and inspire
leaders in various pillars of society to become agents of
change in their communities and nations.

### Multiplication
Multiplication is part of the EMIT DNA. When students
enroll, we require them to identify at least ten leaders
from their communities to mentor. This organic mentorship-training network reaches into the remotest of communities across Africa and has full access to the EMIT
training material. Our students multiply themselves by
imparting their knowledge, skills, character, and spirit
into those they train. This multiplication impact leads to
a movement of transformation.

### Application
There is always a tension between knowledge and application. While there may be institutions providing Africa
with access to information, the knowledge provided
rarely translates into applied skills and transformation.
One of the main reasons for the non-application of
knowledge is a lack of understanding of the uniqueness of African culture. EMIT has its roots in Africa. We
understand the uniqueness of the continent and have
developed our material to address the needs and challenges of Africa. Our leadership programs are designed
to support the practical application of knowledge in the
African context.