---
title: CEO's Letter 2023
subtitle: Using Agility and Innovation to Adapt and Succeed
layout: post
hero:
heroQuote:
hero_Quote_Cite:
hero_image:
sprite_image: /images/sprites/sprite-Set1.webp
sprite_selection_number: 9
team-member: Global CEO, SA, USA and Global Board Member
tags:
  - Innovation
  - Agility
  - Leaders
  - Impact
  - Leadership
category: Thought Leaders
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
leaderName: Kobus Grobler
leaderBio_html:
leader_image: /images/leaders/studentPlaceholder.jpg
country:
latitude:
longitude:
description:
---
After another year of worldwide economic and political disruptions, it is my privilege to present this report on EMIT’s approach to the challenges and successful navigation of our realities on the continent of Africa. &nbsp;

The COVID-19 pandemic prompted adopting a more agile approach to EMIT’s management, structure, and processes.<br>&nbsp;<br>Before COVID-19, EMIT had a hierarchical and rigid Organizational Structure with centralized decision-making and predefined communication channels. A more flexible and decentralized structure was implemented in response to the pandemic. This involved cross-functional and self-organizing teams, enabling quicker decision-making and adaptability.

Bureaucratic processes and rigid structures made **Management** slow to adapt to change. Post-COVID, the organization prioritized adaptability and responsiveness. Agile methodologies were embraced to respond to changing requirements and swiftly incorporate staff and student feedback.

EMIT shifted from a linear approach to **Project and Work Processes** to a continual and incremental approach. This involved breaking projects into smaller, manageable tasks. This promoted continuous improvement and flexibility.

Previously, we took a conservative approach to **Risk Management** with extensive planning before project initiation. A more proactive approach to accepting and managing risk was adopted. We created an environment conducive to experimentation, learning, and improved risk management.

Before COVID, **Employee Roles** were strictly defined with few flexible responsibilities. EMIT now encourages cross-functional teams, allowing members to take on multiple roles as needed. This collaborative and adaptable workforce promotes efficiency and effectiveness.

EMIT became more flexible and adaptive, improving effectiveness and financial stability. Our response to the challenges faced in Africa involved embracing agility, resulting in positive outcomes and progress.

This report credits the guidance of the Lord for transforming EMIT into a more redemptive organization.